
The unique novel tools and high level of technical proficiency that is
characteristic of Farbin's SUSY group renders them extremely
efficient at participating in mainstream searches while simultaneously
exploring and employing leading edge techniques in complimentary
efforts.  Due to a long history with the Analysis Software Group
(ASG), SUSY software, and ATLAS software tutorials, the group is in
many ways the best equipped and most experienced in ATLAS to easily
navigate the required technical obstacles of manipulating data and
performing analyses. RJR and the associated RestFrames~\cite{} toolkit
are also such an asset. A new tool is Deep Learning, an area where
Farbin's breadth and depth of efforts is unmatched in HEP.

The ATLAS SUSY working group currently plans two more full rounds of
searches in Run 2, which no doubt will include flagship inclusive
searches for squarks and gluinos. Considering UTA's long history with
these searches, and the fact they are generally under-manned, Farbin's
group will continue to lend critical manpower to these efforts, for
example by including graduate student Rogers in order to familiarize
her with a large scale ATLAS analysis.

The ATLAS SUSY group is also considering a reorganization of searches
from model-based (e.g. squarks and gluons, stop, electro-weak
chargino, etc.) back to signature based (i.e. all hadronic, one
lepton, etc.), where each signature will include a large number of
signal regions targeting different models. This change will be a
welcomed by Farbin's group as it more closely mirrors their first
Razor-based search~\cite{Aad:2012naa} and Farbin's long term plans for
general searches. As this reorganization occurs, Farbin's group will
work to help define RJR-based regions for signatures beyond the all
hadronic final states, by ensuring that appropriate RJR views are
constructed for every search and corresponding observables are
available to analyzers as they define signal regions. 

As the gains in SUSY reach from Run 2's energy and luminosity boost
are exploited in the first Run 2 searches, subsequent searches will
require dedicated effort to identify and target difficult phase-space
regions and increasingly sophisticated techniques to extend reach.  At
the end of Run 1 both ATLAS and CMS scanned feasible parameters in the
phenomenological MSSM (pMSSM)~\cite{Djouadi:1998di,Berger:2008cq} to
understand the strengths and weaknesses of traditional
searches~\cite{Aad:2015baa,Khachatryan:2016nvf}. Then UTA postdoc
David Cote was one of the primary drivers of this effort. In the pMSSM
the 105 free parameters of the MSSM are reduced to 19 by making
assumptions based on theoretical and experimental results.  Thousands
of SUSY signals were generated by varying those 19 free parameters
uniformly (within some allowed physical range). These studies helped
inform the following strategies Farbin's group will pursue as they
continue to design and carry out SUSY searches:

\begin{itemize}
\item \textbf{Cross-section optimized searches:} While exclusion limits
  on large cross-sections processes, such as strongly produced squark
  and gluino, can be extended to higher masses (i.e. lower
  cross-sections) with more integrated luminosity, LHC searches are
  insensitive to high cross-section scenarios where traditional
  scale-dependent observables such as $H_\mathrm{T}$ (scalar sum of
  momenta) and missing energy are small. In addition, since searches
  are optimized to extend mass limits, which rely on cross-sections
  from Simplified Models where only relevant new particles with 100\$
  branching fractions are added to the SM, sensitivity to smaller
  cross-section at lower masses are often sacrificed. Farbin's group
  will rely on the Razor trigger and the RJR techniques to address the
  former problem, while working to define additional signal regions to
  address the latter.

\item \textbf{Compressed spectra and initial state radiation:} The low
  $p_\mathrm{T}$ spectra (a.ka. soft) of decay products in CSS
  prohibit differentiation from Standard Model processes and fail
  standard trigger selections.  Mono-jet searches can probe these
  models, as they searches for a single high $p_\mathrm{T}$ jet,
  presumed from initial state radiation (ISR), and missing transverse
  momentum. The RJR ISR technique, as applied for ICHEP2016 and
  detailed in~\cite{}, provides the most powerful method for
  generically searching for any CSS scenarios without dependence on
  the SUSY decay. Farbin's group will collaborate with Rogan and
  Jackson to develop such CSS general search. 

\item \textbf{High multiplicity final states:} Models that include
  sleptons in the decay chain are less likely to be excluded, often
  coming from longer decay chains that involve charginos decaying to
  Standard Model bosons (V/h). These longer decay chains can contain
  leptons and/or a high multiplicity of jets in the final
  state. Farbin's group will pay special attention to ensuring these
  scenarios are covered with dedicated signal regions or searches.

\item \textbf{Boosted Heavy SM particles:} Highly boosted $W$, $Z$,
  top, and Higgs are common in SUSY decays, often appearing as Jets
  with unique topologies. Tagging these particles is being pursued
  through out ATLAS, most recently using Deep Learning
  techniques. Beyond contributing to the development of these
  techniques and exploring application SUSY searches, Farbin's group
  will ensure these techniques are applied in the SUSY data processing
  and available to all SUSY collaborators. 
\end{itemize}

Finally Farbin proposes to work towards the R\& D of two new
techniques for SUSY searches. The first attempts to classify the
topology of every event. For example, consider the $bb ll$ + MET final
state which can come from a large number of SUSY and SM processes, for
example stop pair production with $\tilde{t} \rightarrow t
\tilde{\chi}^0$, stop pair production with $\tilde{t} \rightarrow b
\tilde{\chi}^\pm$ and $\rightarrow \tilde{\chi}_o W^\pm (\rightarrow l
\nu)$ or $\rightarrow l \tilde{nu} (\rightarrow \tilde{\chi}^0 \nu)$,
chargino pair-production with $\chi_2^0\rightarrow Z (\rightarrow ll)
+ \tilde{\chi}^0_1$ and $\chi_2^0\rightarrow h (\rightarrow bb) +
\tilde{\chi}^0_1$, or fully leptonic SM $t\bar{t}$. The RJR allows
constructing views and associated observables for all such topologies,
enabling discrimination by directly comparison of observables from
different views, a handle used in the RJR-ISR CSS technique described
above. Using a Parameterized Deep Learning Classifier~\cite{}, which
builds a neutral network optimal for any mass in the decay tree,
Farbin was able to correctly identify a few signal topologies over 95\%
of the time~\cite{}. The vision here is a signature-based search
in-line with SUSY WGs plans, where events further sorted into
topologies. Farbin's group in collaboration with Rogan and Jackson
will fully explore the $bb ll$ + MET final state and lead SUSY WGs
towards this approach. The Long-term vision of this thrust is to apply
the technique across large number of final states, working towards a
general search with the entirety of the Run 2 data during LS2.

The second technique is simply to use Deep Learning classifiers as the
multivariate tool to improve background rejection. As a first step,
Farbin will assist in upgrading existing multi-variate based searches,
for example the stop search performed by De described in
section~\ref{}, to the potentially more powerful DNNs. It is also
rather straightforward to evaluate the potential of DNNs to improve
other non-MVA based searches, for example those planned by Hadavand
and Brandt in section~\ref{}. While DNNs based on traditional
high-level observables like masses and angles (a.k.a. features) may
provide modest improvements, DNNs can also be used to identify
additional handles by using 4-vectors as input. A such studies
typically find that 4-vectors generally perform better than
traditional features. The problem is that most searches rely on some
orthogonal observable, otherwise unused in the MVA, to build sidebands
for background estimation. A 4-vector based DNN's output will likely
be highly correlated with any such observable, prohibiting designating
unbiased sideband regions. While there are avenues to tackle this
problem, its resolution is not necessary to reaping benefits of DNNs
in searches. Instead, 4-vector based DNNs outperforming DNNs based on
traditional variables can be studied to identify the new features
(i.e. observables) than can be added to the traditional analysis. For
example DNNs were able to identify additional color-flow related
observable to separate light jets from $W$ and other heavy object
initiated jets~\cite{}.


